Description:
This project creates a script to collect and clean 2 datasets and builds a tidy data file to be used for further analysis. It uses work done by 
Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and 
Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz in the study: Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living  (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012

The download is available here:
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

A description of the work is available here:
http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones


Process and Variables:

Subset variable names by creating a vector, cvector from variables 
supplied by features.txt to use to change column names. This is needed to make it easier to identify columns for what they are. Also create a holding places for labels and activities. Both are derived from activity_labels.txt. 

Variables:
cvector: Derived using gsub. Holds the table columns names needed for renaming.
activity_labels: staging label table
features: staging features table



#work on testfiles
Create test data table. Add label and subject columns to dataset. Rename
all columns using c("subject","activity') and cvector. After renaming pair down to only include data contained in columns with mean and standard deviation.

Variables:
testdata: staging 
testlabel: staging y_test.txt table
testsubject: staging subject_test.txt
subtest: staging table to facilitate pairing down data.
myvars: staging table to facilitate pairing down data
newtestdata: staging combined subject, activity and test data table


#work on training files
Create test data table. Add label and subject columns to dataset. Rename
all columns using c("subject","activity') and cvector. After renaming pair down to only include data contained in columns with mean and standard deviation.

Variables:
traindata: staging training dataset
trainlabel: staging y_train.txt
trainsubject: staging subject_train.txt
subtrain: staging table to facilitate pairing down data
myvars: staging table to facilitate pairing down data
newtraindata: staging combined subject, activity and train data table



Combine both datasets. Both have identical definitions so a simple "all=TRUE" will suffice

Variables:
combineddata: Merged  renamed and paired down test and train data



To facilitate aggregation, coerce activity to factor and create Tidy data with averages per observation

Variables:
Dhold: New aggregated table

Using this table data is written to summarydata.csv for further and future analysis


